In the previous video, we have created new
topology for room 3.
Now in this video, we are going to connecting
room 3 with room 1 and room 2.
Let’s just start.
Let’s connecting between switch room 2 to
switch room 3.
Remember that interface between switch should
be configured as trunk.
So here in the switch room 2, interface fa0/7
will become trunk, and in the switch room 3
interface fa0/5 will become trunk.
Let’s start with switch room 2.
Enable, configure terminal.
Interface fa0/7, switchport mode trunk.
Next let’s configure switch room 3.
Let’s go to interface fa0/5, and then switchport
mode trunk.
Okay here we get an error “command rejected,
an interface whose trunk encapsulation is
auto can not be configured to trunk mode”
So here we failed to configure this interface
become trunk.
Before we talk about this, let’s talk about
protocol in trunk, actually we have two protocol
in trunk, which is ISL and 802.1q.
ISL is cisco proprietary, this is means that
ISL is only used if cisco switch meet with
cisco switch.
If cisco switch meet with others vendors,
we can not use ISL.
But now ISL is no longer used.
I never see the implementation of ISL.
But 802.1q is open standard.
This is means that all vendors can use this
protocol.
And this is the protocol that we will use
in trunk.
In the switch 2960, it’s only support 802.1q.
switch 2960 not support ISL.
So remember that switch 2960 is no longer
support for ISL.
This is why when we type switchport mode trunk,
there is no error, because the switch only
support 802.1q.
But when we configure switchport mode trunk
in switch 3560, we got an error, this is because
switch 3560 is still support for ISL and 802.1q.
So before configuring mode trunk, we need
to specify which protocol we want to use.
Absolutely we want to use 802.1q. because
ISL is no longer used.
So here before switchport mode trunk, we need
a command to specify the protocol we will use
the command is switchport trunk encapsulation
dot1q.
And then here we can type switchport mode trunk.
Okay we have done.
Now let’s verify it.
Do show interface trunk.
Okay here we can see that now we have interface
trunk, which is fa0/5.
Let’s also check in the switch room 2.
Do show interface trunk.
Okay here we have 2 interface trunk, which
is fa0/5 that connected to switch room 1 and
fa0/7 that connected to switch room 3.
Now let’s ping between pc in the same vlan
but different room.
Let’s start from pc vlan 10 in the room
3 to the pc vlan 10 in the room 2.
Here we can see that the result is success.
Now let’s try from pc vlan 10 room 3 to
the pc vlan 10 room 1.
Okay here we can see that the result is also
success.
Next let’s try for vlan 20.
From room 1 vlan 20 to the room 3 vlan 20.
Okay here the result is success.
From room 3 to the room2, here the result
is also success.
Okay so now we have done configuring trunk
in all switch.
So between pc in the same vlan but different
room can communicate each others.
I think enough for this video.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.